.. _DBAASCLI-0.1.0:

================================================================================
*Percona DBaaS CLI Tool* 0.1.0
================================================================================

:Date: March 16, 2020

Percona announces the release of Percona DBaaS Command Line Tool 0.1.0 early access.

The Percona DBaaS Command Line Tool (percona-dbaas-cli) is a powerful instrument providing a unified way for the user to have a Database as a Service (DBaaS) like experience, built on top of the Kubernetes-based cloud infrastructure such as `Google Kubernetes Engine <https://cloud.google.com/kubernetes-engine>`_. It is a command-line interface to interact with Operators in Kubernetes. Thus, percona-dbaas-cli acts as a middleware making a standardized way to automate the deployment, management, and scaling of containerized databases. It currently works with the Percona Operators, and is intended to be used with other database-related Operators which will be supported in the future.

**The Percona DBaaS Command Line Tool on PerconaLabs is an early access release. It is not recommended for production environments.**

The source code of the Percona DBaaS CLI Tool is currently available on github as an `experimental repository <https://github.com/Percona-Lab/percona-dbaas-cli>`_ inside of Percona-Lab.

.. note::

   Percona-Lab hosts open source GitHub repositories for unofficial scripts and
   tools created by Percona staff. These handy utilities can help save your time
   and effort.

   Percona software builds located in the `Percona-Lab <https://github.com/percona-lab/>`_ are not officially released software, and also aren’t covered by Percona support or services agreements.

Currently, percona-dbaas-cli supports two families of database services:

* mysql - allows to manage MySQL databases via the `Percona XtraDB Cluster Operator <https://www.percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-pxc/index.html>`_,
* mongodb - allows to manage MongoDB databases via the `Percona Server for MongoDB Operator <https://new.percona.com/doc/dbaas-cli/percona.com/doc/kubernetes-operator-for-psmongodb/index.html>`_.

The list of capabilities implemented in this early access release includes the following:

* create a new database instance or cluster
* list all database instances or clusters currently present
* provide detailed information about the database instance or cluster
* change optional values associated to an existing database instance or cluster
* deletes a database instance or cluster

You can `install <https://www.percona.com/doc/dbaas-cli/installation.html>`_ Percona DBaaS Command Line Tool using DEB packages for Debian based distributions such as Ubuntu, or RPM packages for Red Hat based distributions such as CentOS.

Help us improve our software quality by reporting any bugs you encounter using `our bug tracking system <https://jira.percona.com/secure/Dashboard.jspa>`_.
